Figure 5. Approaches to realize area-selective ALD [(a), (c) and (e)] and area-selective ALEt [(b), (d) and (f)]. (a) and (b) show an approach that can be labeled "inherently selective". The substrate is composed of several materials and on the surface of some of the materials, deposition or etching does (virtually) not occur for the ALD or ALEt surface chemistry chosen. The selectivity is therefore, inherent to the specific ALD or ALE process. (c) and (d) show an approach that can be labeled as "selective by deactivation" since part of the substrate is deactivated by a layer of molecules or a film (mask). No etching or deposition takes place at the parts of the surface that are deactivated. This approach is standard for etching. It is not problematic if the mask material is somewhat etched as long as it etches much slower than the to-be-etched material. (e) and (f) show an approach that can be labeled "selective by activation". Film growth or etching only initiates on those parts of the surface that are activated, e.g., by a focused electron or ion beam that locally interacts with the surface. For ALD, processes exist in which this activation only needs to be done before the first cycle; $^{51}$  for ALEt, the local activation step needs to take place every cycle. In all the displayed cases for ALD [(a), (c) and (e)], the area-selective ALD processes depend on an effect known as nucleation delay. The film material easily deposits on some surfaces whereas on other areas, the film hardly nucleates or it takes much longer for the film to nucleate. For area-selective ALEt approaches (b) and (d), selectivity has the same meaning as that typical for etch processes. The to-be-etched material should etch much faster than any other material used. In (d), the selectivity should preferably approach infinity. Furthermore, it is noted that the possibility exists for designing area-selective ALEt approaches by combining ALEt and ALD. For example, area-selective ALD films can serve as a local mask.